README.md, before:

# sumologic-prometheus-scraper
The Sumo Logic Prometheus Scraper provides a configurable general purpose mechanism to ingest Prometheus formatted metrics into Sumo Logic.  These metrics are not ingested from Prometheus, but from targets that Prometheus scrapes.

## Support

The code in this repository has been developed in collaboration with the Sumo Logic community and is not supported via standard Sumo Logic Support channels. For any issues or questions please submit an issue directly on GitHub. The maintainers of this project will work directly with the community to answer any questions, address bugs, or review any requests for new features. 

## License
Released under Apache 2.0 License.

## Usage

This script can be run standalone or as a container.  In order to use the script, you need to provide a configuration file that defines the targets that the script should scrape for metrics.  The path to this configuration should be set in an environment variable `CONFIG_PATH`.  Below is a basic example configuration.

```
{
  "global": {
    "sumo_http_url": "INSERT_SUMO_HTTP_SOURCE_URL_HERE",
    "source_category": "INSERT_SOURCE_CATEGORY",
    "source_host": "INSERT_SOURCE_HOST",
    "source_name": "INSERT_SOURCE_NAME",
    "dimensions": "INSERT_DIMENSIONS_HERE",
    "metadata": "INSERT_METADATA_HERE"
  },
  "targets": [
    {
      "name": "target-name-1",
      "url": "INSERT_PROMETHEUS_SCRAPE_TARGET_HERE",
      "exclude_metrics": ["EXCLUDE_METRIC_1", "EXCLUDE_METRIC_2", ...]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Config Properties

| Key               | Type | Description                                               | Required  | Default |
| ---               | -----| -----------                                               | --------  | ------- |
| `global`          | {}   | This is the global settings that apply to all targets.    | No        | None    |
| `targets`         | []   | A list of targets to scrape and sent to Sumo Logic        | No        | None    |

### Global Properties

All Global properties can be overridden per target.  Each Global property applies to each target, unless the target overrides it.

| Key                      | Type   | Description                                                                                                       | Required                   | Default |
| ---                      | -----  | -----------                                                                                                       | --------                   | ------- |
| `sumo_http_url`          | URL    | The Sumo Logic HTTP source URL.  This can be configured globally, or per target.                                  | Yes (Unless set in Target) | None    | 
| `run_interval_seconds`   | int    | The interval in seconds in which the target should be scraped.  This can be configured globally, or per target.   | No                         | 60      | 
| `target_threads`         | int    | The number of threads to use when POST metrics to Sumo Logic.                                                     | No                         | 10      | 
| `retries`                | int    | The number of times to retry sending data to Sumo Logic in the event of issue.                                    | No                         | 5       | 
| `backoff_factor`         | float  | The back off factor to use when retrying.                                                                         | No                         | .2      | 
| `source_category`        | String | The source category to assign to all data from every target, unless overridden in target.                         | No                         | None    | 
| `source_host`            | String | The source host to assign to all data from every target, unless overridden in target.                             | No                         | None    | 
| `source_name`            | String | The source name to assign to all data from every target, unless overridden in target.                             | No                         | None    | 
| `dimensions`             | String | Additional dimensions to assign to all data from every target, unless overridden in target.                       | No                         | None    | 
| `metadata`               | String | Additional metadata to assign to all data from every target, unless overridden in target.                         | No                         | None    | 

### Target Properties
| Key                       | Type      | Description                                                                                                                                           | Required  | Default |
| ---                       | -----     | -----------                                                                                                                                           | --------  | ------- |
| `url`                     | String    | The URL for the Prometheus target to scrape.                                                                                                          | Yes       | None    |
| `name`                    | String    | The name of the target.  Used to generate an `up` metric to show that target is up.                                                                   | Yes       | None    |
| `exclude_metrics`         | \[String\]| A list of Strings of metric names to exclude.  Metrics with this name will not be sent to Sumo Logic.                                                 | No        | None    |
| `include_metrics`         | \[String\]| A list of Strings of metric names to include.  Metrics with this name will be sent to Sumo Logic, as long as they are not in the exclude list.        | No        | None    |
| `exclude_labels`          | Dict      | A dictionary of labels to exclude.  Metrics with these labels will not be sent to Sumo Logic.                                                         | No        | None    |
| `include_labels`          | Dict      | A dictionary of labels to include.  Metrics with these labels will be sent to Sumo Logic, as long as they are not in the exclude list.                | No        | None    |
 
### Including and Excluding metrics by Name

For each target, you can provide a list of metrics to include (`include_metrics`) or exclude (`exclude_metrics`).  If you are using include and exclude, then exclusion takes precedence.  If you are using include then only metrics in the inclusion list will be sent to Sumo Logic, provided there is no exclusion list containing that same value. Both include and exclude lists support use of * and ? wildcards.

### Including and Excluding metrics by Label

For each target, you can provide a dictionary of labels to include (`include_labels`) or exclude (`exclude_labels`).  If you are using include and exclude, then exclusion takes precedence.  If you are using include then only metrics in the inclusion list will be sent to Sumo Logic, provided there is no exclusion list containing that same value. Both include and exclude lists support use of * and ? wildcards.

### Setup

#### Create a hosted collector and HTTP source in Sumo

In this step you create, on the Sumo service, an HTTP endpoint to receive your logs. This process involves creating an HTTP source on a hosted collector in Sumo. In Sumo, collectors use sources to receive data.

1. If you don’t already have a Sumo account, you can create one by clicking the **Free Trial** button on https://www.sumologic.com/.
2. Create a hosted collector, following the instructions on [Configure a Hosted Collector](https://help.sumologic.com/Send-Data/Hosted-Collectors/Configure-a-Hosted-Collector) in Sumo help. (If you already have a Sumo hosted collector that you want to use, skip this step.)  
3. Create an HTTP source on the collector you created in the previous step. For instructions, see [HTTP Logs and Metrics Source](https://help.sumologic.com/Send-Data/Sources/02Sources-for-Hosted-Collectors/HTTP-Source) in Sumo help. 
4. When you have configured the HTTP source, Sumo will display the URL of the HTTP endpoint. Make a note of the URL. You will use it when you configure the script to send data to Sumo. 

#### Deploy the script as you want to
The script can be configured with the following environment variables to be set.

| Variable            | Description                                                  | Required | DEFAULT VALUE    |
| --------            | -----------                                                  | -------- | -------------    |
| `CONFIG_PATH`       | The path to the configuration file.                          | YES      |  `./config.json` |
| `LOGGING_LEVEL`     | The logging level.                                           | NO       |  `INFO`          |

##### Running locally

  1. Clone this repo.
  2. Create the configuration file.  If config file is not in the same path as script, set CONFIG_PATH environment variable to config file path.
  3. Install [pipenv](https://docs.pipenv.org/#install-pipenv-today)
  4. Create local virtualenv with all required dependencies `pipenv install`
  5. Activate created virtualenv by running `pipenv shell`
  6. Run the script. `./sumologic_prometheus_scraper.py`
  
##### Running as a Docker Container

The script is packaged as a Docker Container, however the config file is still required and no default is provided.

##### Updating python dependencies

This project uses `Pipfile` and `Pipfile.lock` files to manage python dependencies and provide repeatable builds. 
To update packages you should run `pipenv update` or follow [pipenv upgrade workflow](https://docs.pipenv.org/basics/#example-pipenv-upgrade-workflow)

### Common Errors

#### `Error: Invalid value for "config": Could not open file: config.json: No such file or directory`
You did not provide the config path or set the CONFIG_PATH variable.

#### `Error: Invalid value for "config": Could not open file: *** : No such file or directory`
The config path is defined, but the file does not exist.  Make sure the config path is correct and the file does exist.

#### `Error: Invalid value for "config": Expecting ',' delimiter: line * column * (char ***)`
The config file has invalid syntax and cannot be parsed as JSON.

#### `Error: Invalid value for "targets": required key not provided.`
There are no targets defined in the config file.

#### `sumo_http_url not defined for * and is required.`
The `sumo_http_url` is not defined.

#### `Error: Invalid value for "targets" / "0" / "sumo_http_url": expected a URL`
The `sumo_http_url` is not a valid URL.

Commit message:

refactor, harden config validation, add auto discovery for k8s services

README.md, after:

# sumologic-prometheus-scraper
The Sumo Logic Prometheus Scraper provides a configurable general purpose mechanism to ingest Prometheus formatted metrics into Sumo Logic.  These metrics are not ingested from Prometheus, but from targets that Prometheus scrapes.

## Support

The code in this repository has been developed in collaboration with the Sumo Logic community and is not supported via standard Sumo Logic Support channels. For any issues or questions please submit an issue directly on GitHub. The maintainers of this project will work directly with the community to answer any questions, address bugs, or review any requests for new features. 

## License
Released under Apache 2.0 License.

## Usage

This script can be run standalone or as a container.  In order to use the script, you need to provide a configuration file that defines the targets that the script should scrape for metrics.  The path to this configuration should be set in an environment variable `CONFIG_PATH`.  Below is a basic example configuration.

```
{
  "global": {
    "sumo_http_url": "INSERT_SUMO_HTTP_SOURCE_URL_HERE",
    "source_category": "INSERT_SOURCE_CATEGORY",
    "source_host": "INSERT_SOURCE_HOST",
    "source_name": "INSERT_SOURCE_NAME",
    "dimensions": "INSERT_DIMENSIONS_HERE",
    "metadata": "INSERT_METADATA_HERE"
  },
  "targets": [
    {
      "name": "target-name-1",
      "url": "INSERT_PROMETHEUS_SCRAPE_TARGET_HERE",
      "exclude_metrics": ["EXCLUDE_METRIC_1", "EXCLUDE_METRIC_2", ...]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Config Properties

| Key               | Type | Description                                               | Required  | Default |
| ---               | -----| -----------                                               | --------  | ------- |
| `global`          | {}   | This is the global settings that apply to all targets.    | No        | None    |
| `targets`         | []   | A list of targets to scrape and sent to Sumo Logic        | No        | None    |

### Global Properties

All Global properties can be overridden per target.  Each Global property applies to each target, unless the target overrides it.

| Key                      | Type   | Description                                                                                                       | Required                   | Default |
| ---                      | -----  | -----------                                                                                                       | --------                   | ------- |
| `sumo_http_url`          | URL    | The Sumo Logic HTTP source URL.  This can be configured globally, or per target.                                  | Yes (Unless set in Target) | None    | 
| `run_interval_seconds`   | int    | The interval in seconds in which the target should be scraped.  This can be configured globally, or per target.   | No                         | 60      | 
| `target_threads`         | int    | The number of threads to use when POST metrics to Sumo Logic.                                                     | No                         | 10      | 
| `retries`                | int    | The number of times to retry sending data to Sumo Logic in the event of issue.                                    | No                         | 5       | 
| `backoff_factor`         | float  | The back off factor to use when retrying.                                                                         | No                         | .2      | 
| `source_category`        | String | The source category to assign to all data from every target, unless overridden in target.                         | No                         | None    | 
| `source_host`            | String | The source host to assign to all data from every target, unless overridden in target.                             | No                         | None    | 
| `source_name`            | String | The source name to assign to all data from every target, unless overridden in target.                             | No                         | None    | 
| `dimensions`             | String | Additional dimensions to assign to all data from every target, unless overridden in target.                       | No                         | None    | 
| `metadata`               | String | Additional metadata to assign to all data from every target, unless overridden in target.                         | No                         | None    | 

### Target Properties
| Key                       | Type      | Description                                                                                                                                           | Required  | Default |
| ---                       | -----     | -----------                                                                                                                                           | --------  | ------- |
| `url`                     | String    | The URL for the Prometheus target to scrape.                                                                                                          | Yes       | None    |
| `name`                    | String    | The name of the target.  Used to generate an `up` metric to show that target is up.                                                                   | Yes       | None    |
| `exclude_metrics`         | \[String\]| A list of Strings of metric names to exclude.  Metrics with this name will not be sent to Sumo Logic.                                                 | No        | None    |
| `include_metrics`         | \[String\]| A list of Strings of metric names to include.  Metrics with this name will be sent to Sumo Logic, as long as they are not in the exclude list.        | No        | None    |
| `exclude_labels`          | Dict      | A dictionary of labels to exclude.  Metrics with these labels will not be sent to Sumo Logic.                                                         | No        | None    |
| `include_labels`          | Dict      | A dictionary of labels to include.  Metrics with these labels will be sent to Sumo Logic, as long as they are not in the exclude list.                | No        | None    |
 

### Auto Discovery For Kubernetes Services

Release 2.3.0 adds support for auto discovery of URL's behind Kubernetes services.  When configuring a target url, it is possible to provide a dictionary instead of a URL.  The dictionary can have the following properties:

| Key           | Type      | Description                                                      | Required  | Default  |
| ---           | ----      | -----------                                                      | --------  | -------  |
| `service`     | str       | The name of the Kubernetes Service.                              | Yes       | None     |
| `namespace`   | str       | The name of the Kubernetes namespace the Service runs in.        | Yes       | None     | 
| `protocol`    | str       | The protocol to use when connecting to the service.              | Yes       | http     |  
| `path`        | str       | The path for the service endpoint for where metrics are exposed. | Yes       | /metrics |

For example, suppose you have a Service called `foo` in the `bar` Namespace.  Lets say there are 3 pods in the deployment that the `foo` Service points to, each one exposing its custom metrics on `/metrics`.  You could use the following configuration for the `url` to collect metrics from all 3 pods.

```json
{
  "service": "foo",
  "namespace": "bar"
}
```

If you were to simply use the Service URL (e.g. `http://foo.bar:8080/metrics`), the you would get the metrics from one pod each scrape, the pod that the Service would happen to choose.  Using the dictionary configuration ensures you always get the metrics from all pods behind the Service.   
 
### Including and Excluding metrics by Name

For each target, you can provide a list of metrics to include (`include_metrics`) or exclude (`exclude_metrics`).  If you are using include and exclude, then exclusion takes precedence.  If you are using include then only metrics in the inclusion list will be sent to Sumo Logic, provided there is no exclusion list containing that same value. Both include and exclude lists support use of * and ? wildcards.

### Including and Excluding metrics by Label

For each target, you can provide a dictionary of labels to include (`include_labels`) or exclude (`exclude_labels`).  If you are using include and exclude, then exclusion takes precedence.  If you are using include then only metrics in the inclusion list will be sent to Sumo Logic, provided there is no exclusion list containing that same value. Both include and exclude lists support use of * and ? wildcards.

### Setup

#### Create a hosted collector and HTTP source in Sumo

In this step you create, on the Sumo service, an HTTP endpoint to receive your logs. This process involves creating an HTTP source on a hosted collector in Sumo. In Sumo, collectors use sources to receive data.

1. If you don’t already have a Sumo account, you can create one by clicking the **Free Trial** button on https://www.sumologic.com/.
2. Create a hosted collector, following the instructions on [Configure a Hosted Collector](https://help.sumologic.com/Send-Data/Hosted-Collectors/Configure-a-Hosted-Collector) in Sumo help. (If you already have a Sumo hosted collector that you want to use, skip this step.)  
3. Create an HTTP source on the collector you created in the previous step. For instructions, see [HTTP Logs and Metrics Source](https://help.sumologic.com/Send-Data/Sources/02Sources-for-Hosted-Collectors/HTTP-Source) in Sumo help. 
4. When you have configured the HTTP source, Sumo will display the URL of the HTTP endpoint. Make a note of the URL. You will use it when you configure the script to send data to Sumo. 

#### Deploy the script as you want to
The script can be configured with the following environment variables to be set.

| Variable            | Description                                                  | Required | DEFAULT VALUE    |
| --------            | -----------                                                  | -------- | -------------    |
| `CONFIG_PATH`       | The path to the configuration file.                          | YES      |  `./config.json` |
| `LOGGING_LEVEL`     | The logging level.                                           | NO       |  `INFO`          |

##### Running locally

  1. Clone this repo.
  2. Create the configuration file.  If config file is not in the same path as script, set CONFIG_PATH environment variable to config file path.
  3. Install [pipenv](https://docs.pipenv.org/#install-pipenv-today)
  4. Create local virtualenv with all required dependencies `pipenv install`
  5. Activate created virtualenv by running `pipenv shell`
  6. Run the script. `./sumologic_prometheus_scraper.py`
  
##### Running as a Docker Container

The script is packaged as a Docker Container, however the config file is still required and no default is provided.

##### Updating python dependencies

This project uses `Pipfile` and `Pipfile.lock` files to manage python dependencies and provide repeatable builds. 
To update packages you should run `pipenv update` or follow [pipenv upgrade workflow](https://docs.pipenv.org/basics/#example-pipenv-upgrade-workflow)

### Common Errors

#### `Error: Invalid value for "config": Could not open file: config.json: No such file or directory`
You did not provide the config path or set the CONFIG_PATH variable.

#### `Error: Invalid value for "config": Could not open file: *** : No such file or directory`
The config path is defined, but the file does not exist.  Make sure the config path is correct and the file does exist.

#### `Error: Invalid value for "config": Expecting ',' delimiter: line * column * (char ***)`
The config file has invalid syntax and cannot be parsed as JSON.

#### `Error: Invalid value for "targets": required key not provided.`
There are no targets defined in the config file.

#### `Error: Invalid value for "targets" / "0" / "sumo_http_url": expected a URL`
The `sumo_http_url` is not a valid URL.
